
--- page 1 ---

REFERENCE DOCUMENT FOR PREPARING PROJECT REPORT .
The FISAT Certificate Management System (CMS) is a web-based application designed to
streamline  and automate  the  process  of managing  certificates  and events within the FISAT
institution. This system aims to provide a centralized platform for faculty members and
administrators to efficiently organize events, issue certificates, and manage related data.
Software Requirement Specification 
Functional Requirements:
This section describes the functional requirements of the FISAT Certificate  management 
System in detail. Functional requirements specify the system's behavior and interactions with
users, external systems, and data.
2.1 Login Module
2.1.1 User Authentication
Requirement ID: FR-LOGIN-001
Description: The system shall provide a login screen where users can enter their credentials 
(username and password) to authenticate and access the system.
Inputs: Username, Password
Outputs: Authentication status (Success/Failure)
Priority: High
Dependencies: None
2.2 Event Management Module
2.2.1 Event Creation
Requirement ID: FR-EVENT-001
Description: Users with appropriate permissions shall be able to create new events by providing 
event details such as name, date, description, and associated cells.
Inputs: Event Name, Start Date, End Date, Description, Cell Name
Outputs: Event ID, Event Details
Priority: High
Dependencies: User Authentication

--- page 2 ---

2.2.2 Event Editing
Requirement ID: FR-EVENT-002
Description: Users shall be able to edit existing events to update event details or make changes as
needed.
Inputs: Event ID, Updated Event Details
Outputs: Updated Event Details
Priority: High
Dependencies: User Authentication
2.2.3 Event Deletion
Requirement ID: FR-EVENT-003
Description: Users shall have the capability to delete events that are no longer required or have 
been cancelled.
Inputs: Event ID
Outputs: Confirmation message
Priority: High
Dependencies: User Authentication
2.3 Certificate Management Module
2.3.1 Certificate Generation
Requirement ID: FR-CERT-001Description: The system shall generate certificates for 
participants of events based on predefined templates and participant information.
Inputs: Event ID, Participant Information
Outputs: Generated Certificate
Priority: High
Dependencies: Event Management Module
2.4 User Management Module
2.4.1 User Registration
Requirement ID: FR-USER-001
Description: Administrators shall be able to register new users by providing their personal and 
login information.
Inputs: User Details (Name, Email, Role, Password)
Outputs: User Registration Confirmation
Priority: High

--- page 3 ---

Dependencies: User Authentication
2.4.2 User Role Management
Requirement ID: FR-USER-002
Description: Administrators shall have the ability to assign roles and permissions to users based 
on their responsibilities and access requirements.
Inputs: User Role, Permissions
Outputs: Role Assignment Confirmation
Priority: High
Dependencies: User Authentication
Non-Functional Requirements :
Non-functional requirements define the quality attributes of the system, including performance, 
security, reliability, usability, and compliance. These requirements ensure that the system meets 
the desired standards in areas beyond just functionality.
3.1 Performance
3.1.1 Response Time
Requirement ID: NFR-PERF-001
Description: The system shall respond to user interactions (e.g., login, event
creation) within 2 seconds under normal load conditions.
Priority: High
3.1.2 Scalability
Requirement ID: NFR-PERF-002
Description: The system shall be able to handle a minimum of 100 concurrent users without 
degradation in performance.
Priority: High
3.2 Security
3.2.1 Data Encryption
Requirement ID: NFR-SEC-001
Description: All sensitive data stored in the database (e.g., passwords, participant information) 
shall be encrypted using industry-standard encryption algorithms.
Priority: High
3.2.2 Authentication Mechanism
Requirement ID: NFR-SEC-002

--- page 4 ---

Description: The system shall support secure authentication methods such as password hashing 
and salting to protect user credentials.
Priority: High
3.3 Reliability
3.3.1 Fault Tolerance
Requirement ID: NFR-REL-001
Description: The system shall be resilient to hardware failures or network outages, with minimal 
impact on user experience.
Priority: High
3.3.2 Error Handling
Requirement ID: NFR-REL-002
Description: The system shall have graceful error handling mechanisms to handle unexpected 
errors and provide meaningful error messages to users.
Priority: High
3.4 Usability
3.4.1 User Interface Consistency
Requirement ID: NFR-USAB-001
Description: The user interface shall maintain consistency in design elements, layout, and 
navigation across all screens to enhance user experience.
Priority: High
3.4.2 Accessibility
Requirement ID: NFR-USAB-002
Description: The application shall adhere to accessibility standards (e.g., WCAG) to ensure it is 
accessible to users with disabilities.
Priority: High
3.5 Compliance
3.5.1 Data Privacy
Requirement ID: NFR-COMP-001
Description: The system shall comply with relevant data protection regulations (e.g., GDPR, 
HIPAA) and institutional privacy policies to protect user data.
Priority: High
3.5.2 Regulatory Compliance
Requirement ID: NFR-COMP-002
Description: The system shall ensure compliance with any industry-specific regulations or 
standards applicable to the institution.
Priority: High

--- page 5 ---

Software Design Document
System Features:
This section provides a detailed breakdown of the various features or modules of the FISAT 
Certificate Management System, along with descriptions of their functionalities, inputs, outputs, 
and dependencies.
4.1 Login Module
4.1.1 User Authentication
Description: This feature allows users to authenticate themselves into the system by providing 
their credentials (username and password).
Functionality: Validates user credentials against stored data in the system's authentication 
database.
Inputs: Username, Password
Outputs: Authentication status (Success/Failure)
Dependencies: None
4.2 Event Management Module
4.2.1 Event Creation
Description: This feature enables users to create new events by providing relevant event details 
such as name, date, description, and associated cells.
Functionality: Validates input data, generates unique event ID, and saves event details to the 
system database.
Inputs: Event Name, Start Date, End Date, Description, Cell Name
Outputs: Event ID, Event Details
Dependencies: User Authentication
4.2.2 Event Editing
Description: This feature allows users to edit existing events to update event details or make 
changes as needed.Functionality: Retrieves existing event details, allows users to modify event 
information, and updates the event record in the system database.
Inputs: Event ID, Updated Event Details
Outputs: Updated Event Details
Dependencies: User Authentication
4.2.3 Event Deletion
Description: This feature enables users to delete events that are no longer required or have been 
cancelled.
Functionality: Retrieves event details based on the event ID, deletes the event record from the 

--- page 6 ---

system database, and removes associated data (e.g., certificates).
Inputs: Event ID
Outputs: Confirmation message
Dependencies: User Authentication
4.3 Certificate Management Module
4.3.1 Certificate Generation
Description: This feature automates the generation of certificates for participants of events based 
on predefined templates and participant information.
Functionality: Retrieves participant data for the specified event, merges it with the certificate 
template, and generates a unique certificate for each participant.
Inputs: Event ID, Participant Information
Outputs: Generated Certificate
Dependencies: Event Management Module
4.3.2 Certificate Distribution
Description: This feature facilitates the distribution of certificates to event participants either 
electronically (via email or download) or manually (printed copies).
Functionality: Sends certificates to participants via email or provides download links, or  
generates printable certificates for manual distribution.
Inputs: Participant Email Address, Certificate Format (PDF, Print)
Outputs: Certificate Distribution Status
Dependencies: Certificate Generation
System Architecture Design
System Components:
1.Frontend Application (ReactJS + TailwindCSS):
○Responsible for the user interface and interaction with users.
○Built using ReactJS for dynamic UI rendering.
○Styled using TailwindCSS for responsive and modern design.
2.Backend Server (PHP CodeIgniter + Apache2):
○Provides RESTful APIs to the frontend for data exchange.
○Developed using PHP CodeIgniter framework for rapid development and MVC 
architecture.
○Deployed on Apache2 web server for serving PHP scripts.

--- page 7 ---

3.Database (PostgreSQL):
○Stores application data, including user information, events, certificates, etc.
○Utilizes PostgreSQL for its relational data model, scalability, and robustness.
4.LDAP Server:
○Handles authentication and authorization using LDAP (Lightweight Directory 
Access Protocol).
○Integrates with the LDAP server to authenticate users and manage access control.
5.External API (Gmail API):
○Integrates with the Gmail API to send emails for notifications and communication
purposes.
6.AWS Cloud Platform:
○Deployment environment hosted on AWS (Amazon Web Services) for scalability,
reliability, and security.
○Utilizes AWS services such as EC2 for virtual servers, RDS for managed 
PostgreSQL database, and S3 for file storage.
System Interaction:
●Frontend <-> Backend:
○Frontend interacts with the backend server via RESTful APIs for fetching and 
manipulating data.
○Backend processes requests, retrieves data from the database, and sends responses
to the frontend.
●LDAP Authentication:
○Frontend sends user credentials to the LDAP server for authentication.
○LDAP server verifies the credentials and sends back authentication status to the 
frontend.
●External API Integration:
○Backend integrates with the Gmail API to send emails for notifications and 
communication with users.
Scalability and Security Measures:
●Vertical Scalability:
○Architecture designed for vertical scalability to handle increased load by 
upgrading server resources (e.g., CPU, RAM) as needed.
●Security Measures:

--- page 8 ---

○CodeIgniter application built following security best practices to prevent common
vulnerabilities such as SQL injection, XSS, CSRF, etc.
○Database security ensured through PostgreSQL's features like role-based access 
control, encryption, and auditing.
○Communication between components secured using HTTPS/TLS protocols.
○AWS security measures implemented, including network security groups, IAM 
roles, encryption at rest, etc.
Constraints :
1. Technology Constraints
 Operating System: The system must be compatible with commonly used  operating systems
such as Windows, macOS, and Linux.
 Web Browser Compatibility: The system should be compatible with modern  web browsers such
as Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, and Microsoft Edge.
 Programming Language: The system should be developed using  programming languages and
frameworks that are supported by the  development  team  and suitable  for web application
development.
 2.  Hardware Constraints
 Server Requirements: The system must be hosted on servers with adequate  resources (e.g.,
CPU, memory, storage) to support expected user loads and  data processing requirements.
 Network Infrastructure: The system's performance and availability may be impacted by the
quality  and  reliability  of  the  network  infrastructure  used  for   hosting  and  accessing  the
application.
 3. Regulatory Constraints
 Data Privacy Regulations: The system must comply with relevant data protection regulations
(e.g., GDPR, HIPAA) and institutional policies governing  the collection, storage, and processing
of personal data.
 Security  Standards:  The  system  must  adhere  to  industry-standard  security   practices  and
protocols to protect sensitive information and prevent  unauthorized access or data breaches.

--- page 9 ---

 4. Time Constraints
 Project Timeline: The system development and implementation must adhere  to the agreed-upon
project timeline and milestones to ensure timely delivery and deployment.
 Scheduled Downtime: Any planned maintenance or system downtime should  be scheduled
during off-peak hours to minimize disruption to users and  operations.
 5. Resource Constraints
 Budget: The system development and implementation should stay within the allocated budget,
considering factors such as development costs, licensing fees, and infrastructure expenses.
 Human Resources: Availability of skilled personnel and development resources may impact the
system's design, development, and maintenance activities.
Application Architecture Design:
1.Frontend:
○Technology: ReactJS with Tailwind CSS.
○Description: The frontend application will be developed using ReactJS, a popular 
JavaScript library for building user interfaces. Tailwind CSS will be used for 
styling to ensure a modern and responsive design.
2.Backend:
○Technology: PHP CodeIgniter.
○Description: The backend server will be built using PHP CodeIgniter, a 
lightweight and powerful PHP framework known for its simplicity and speed of 
development. CodeIgniter follows the MVC (Model-View-Controller) pattern, 
facilitating organized and maintainable code.
3.Database:
○Technology: PostgreSQL.
○Description: PostgreSQL will be used as the database management system to 
store application data. Its relational model, support for complex queries, and data 
integrity features make it suitable for managing various types of data in the 
system.
4.User Authentication and Authorization:
○Method: LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol).
○Description: LDAP will be utilized for user authentication and authorization. It 
provides a centralized authentication mechanism, allowing users to log in using 

--- page 10 ---

their LDAP credentials and managing access control based on LDAP groups or 
roles.
5.External API Integration:
○API: Gmail API.
○Description: The application will integrate with the Gmail API to send emails for 
notifications and communication with users. This API will facilitate sending 
emails for events, certificate notifications, and other relevant communications.
6.Scalability:
○Horizontal Scalability: The architecture will be designed to scale horizontally to 
handle increased user traffic and data volume. This can be achieved by deploying 
multiple instances of the backend server behind a load balancer.
○Vertical Scalability: Vertical scalability will also be considered, allowing 
individual components to be upgraded with more resources (e.g., CPU, memory) 
to handle increased load.
7.Security Measures:
○Frontend Security: Implement security best practices in frontend development to 
mitigate common web vulnerabilities like XSS (Cross-Site Scripting) and CSRF 
(Cross-Site Request Forgery).
○Backend Security: Apply security measures in CodeIgniter development to 
protect against SQL injection, authentication bypass, and other security threats.
○Data Security: Ensure data security in PostgreSQL by implementing encryption 
mechanisms and access control policies to protect sensitive information.
○Network Security: Implement secure communication protocols (HTTPS/TLS) 
between frontend, backend, and database components to protect data in transit.
8.Deployment Environment:
○Platform: AWS (Amazon Web Services).
○Description: The application will be deployed on AWS cloud infrastructure for its
scalability, reliability, and flexibility. AWS services such as EC2 (Elastic 
Compute Cloud), RDS (Relational Database Service), and S3 (Simple Storage 
Service) will be utilized for hosting the application components.

--- page 11 ---

API Design :
1. Authentication API
1.1. Endpoint: /api/auth/login
●Method: POST
Request Body:
{
  "username": "example_user",
  "password": "example_password"
}
●Response:
○Success (HTTP 200):
{
  "token": "example_token"
}
○Error (HTTP 401):
{
  "error": "Unauthorized",
  "message": "Invalid username or password"
}
2. Event Management APIs
2.1. Endpoint: /api/events
●Method: GET
●Response:
Success (HTTP 200):
           [
            {
                "id": 1,
    "name": "Event Name",

--- page 12 ---

    "description": "Event Description" ,
    "start_date": "2024-05-01",
    "end_date": "2024-05-03"
  },
  {
  "id": 2,
     "name": "Another Event",
    "description": "Another Description" ,
    "start_date": "2024-06-01",
    "end_date": "2024-06-03"
  }
]
2.2. Endpoint: /api/events/{eventId}
●Method: GET
●Response:
○Success (HTTP 200):
{
  "id": 1,
  "name": "Event Name",
  "description": "Event Description" ,
  "start_date": "2024-05-01",
  "end_date": "2024-05-03"
}
2.3. Endpoint: /api/events
●Method: POST
Request Body:
{
  "name": "New Event",
  "description": "New Event Description" ,
    "start_date": "2024-07-01",
    "end_date": "2024-07-03"
}

--- page 13 ---

●Response:
○Success (HTTP 201):
{
  "id": 3,
  "name": "New Event",
  "description": "New Event Description" ,
  "start_date": "2024-07-01",
  "end_date": "2024-07-03"
}
3. Certificate Generation API
3.1. Endpoint: /api/certificates/generate
●Method: POST
Request Body:
{
  "eventId": 1,
  "participantName": "John Doe",
  "description": "Participant description"
}
●Response:
○Success (HTTP 200):
{
  "certificateId": 12345,
  "participantName": "John Doe",
  "event": {
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Event Name",
    "start_date": "2024-05-01",
    "end_date": "2024-05-03"
  }
}
○Error (HTTP 404):
{
  "error": "Not Found",
  "message": "Event not found"
}

--- page 14 ---

Database Design :
1. User Table
●Table Name: users
●Columns:
○user_id (Primary Key, INT, NOT NULL)
○username (VARCHAR(50), NOT NULL, UNIQUE)
○password_hash (VARCHAR(255), NOT NULL)
○role (ENUM('faculty', 'admin'), NOT NULL)
2. Event Table
●Table Name: events
●Columns:
○event_id (Primary Key, INT, NOT NULL)
○name (VARCHAR(100), NOT NULL)
○description (TEXT)
○start_date (DATE, NOT NULL)
○end_date (DATE, NOT NULL)
○organizer_id (INT, Foreign Key referencing users.user_id, NOT NULL)
3. Certificate Table
●Table Name: certificates
●Columns:
○certificate_id (Primary Key, INT, NOT NULL)
○event_id (INT, Foreign Key referencing events.event_id, NOT NULL)
○participant_name (VARCHAR(100), NOT NULL)
○description (TEXT)
○issue_date (DATE, NOT NULL)
4. Cell Table (for Admin Dashboard)
●Table Name: cells
●Columns:
○cell_id (Primary Key, INT, NOT NULL)
○name (VARCHAR(100), NOT NULL, UNIQUE)
○description (TEXT)
5. CellCoordinator Table (for Admin Dashboard)
●Table Name: cell_coordinators

--- page 15 ---

●Columns:
○cell_coordinator_id (Primary Key, INT, NOT NULL)
○cell_id (INT, Foreign Key referencing cells.cell_id, NOT NULL)
○faculty_id (INT, Foreign Key referencing users.user_id, NOT NULL)
6. FacultyCellMapping Table (for Admin Dashboard)
●Table Name: faculty_cell_mapping
●Columns:
○faculty_id (INT, Foreign Key referencing users.user_id, NOT NULL)
○cell_id (INT, Foreign Key referencing cells.cell_id, NOT NULL)
7. Database Relationships
●Each event is organized by a faculty member (organizer_id in events table).
●Each certificate is associated with a specific event (event_id in certificates table).
●Each faculty member can be assigned to multiple cells (many-to-many relationship 
between users and cells through faculty_cell_mapping table).
●Each cell can have multiple faculty members assigned as coordinators (one-to-many 
relationship between cells and cell_coordinators).
Technology Stack
Backend (Server-Side)
1.Programming Language: PHP version
2.Framework: CodeIgniter version 
3.Database Management System: PostgreSQL version
Frontend (Client-Side)
1.JavaScript Framework/Library: React.js version
2.UI Library: Material-UI  version
Additional Tools and Technologies
1.RESTful API Development: PHP CodeIgniter provides built-in support for building 
RESTful APIs, allowing you to define API endpoints for client-server communication.
2.Package Manager: npm 
3.Version Control: Git
4.Containerization: Docker 
5.Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD): Jenkins, Travis CI 

--- page 16 ---

Use Cases
5.1 Use Case 1: User Login
5.1.1 Description
This use case describes the process of a user logging into the system.
5.1.2 Actors
User
5.1.3 Preconditions
The system is operational.
User credentials are valid.
5.1.4 Main Flow
1.User navigates to the login page.
2.User enters their username and password.
3.System validates user credentials.
4.If credentials are valid, the system grants access to the user and redirects them to the 
main dashboard.
If credentials are invalid, the system displays an error message.
5.1.5 Postconditions
User is logged into the system.
5.2 Use Case 2: Event Creation
5.2.1 Description
This use case describes the process of creating a new event in the system.
5.2.2 Actors
Faculty/Administrator
5.2.3 Preconditions
User is logged into the system.User has appropriate permissions to create events.
5.2.4 Main Flow
1.User navigates to the event creation page.
2.User enters event details such as name, date, description, and associated cells.
3.User submits the event creation form.
System validates input data and saves event details to the database.
System displays a confirmation message indicating successful event creation.
5.2.5 Postconditions
New event is created and added to the system.
5.3 Use Case 3: Certificate Generation
5.3.1 Description
This use case describes the process of generating certificates for event participants.
5.3.2 Actors
Administrator

--- page 17 ---

5.3.3 Preconditions
Event has been conducted and participant data is available.
5.3.4 Main Flow
1.Administrator selects the event for which certificates need to be generated.
2.System retrieves participant data for the selected event.
3.System merges participant data with the certificate template.
4.System generates a unique certificate for each participant.
5.System provides options for distributing certificates (electronically or manually).
5.3.5 Postconditions
Certificates are generated and distributed to event participants.
Implementation
4.1 Code Development
4.1.1 Set coding standards
PHP (CodeIgniter)
1.PSR Standards: Adhere to PHP Standards Recommendations (PSR) whenever possible, 
such as PSR-1 (Basic Coding Standard) and PSR-12 (Extended Coding Style Guide).
2.File Structure: Organize files and directories logically, following the MVC (Model-View-
Controller) architecture of CodeIgniter.
3.Naming Conventions:
○Use meaningful and descriptive names for variables, functions, classes, and 
methods.
○Follow camelCase naming convention for variables and functions/methods.
○Class names should be in PascalCase (capitalizing the first letter of each word).
4.Indentation and Formatting:
○Use consistent indentation (usually four spaces) for code blocks and control 
structures.
○Use braces {} for control structures even for single-line statements.
○Keep lines of code within a reasonable length (e.g., 80-120 characters).
5.Comments:
○Add comments to explain complex logic, algorithms, or non-obvious parts of the 
code.
○Use PHPDoc comments for documenting classes, methods, and functions, 
including descriptions, parameters, return types, and exceptions.
6.Error Handling:
○Implement proper error handling mechanisms using try-catch blocks for exception
handling.
○Use appropriate error reporting levels and logging to track errors and exceptions.

--- page 18 ---

7.Security:
○Sanitize user input to prevent SQL injection, XSS (Cross-Site Scripting), and 
other security vulnerabilities.
○Validate user input and enforce access control to ensure data integrity and 
security.
React.js
1.JavaScript Standard Style: Adhere to JavaScript Standard Style or ESLint rules for 
consistent and maintainable code formatting and style.
2.Component Structure:
○Organize components into functional or class-based components based on their 
complexity and functionality.
○Use meaningful names for components that describe their purpose and 
functionality.
3.JSX Syntax:
○Write clean and concise JSX syntax, using JSX expressions, fragments, and 
conditional rendering where necessary.
○Avoid complex logic within JSX templates; move logic to separate functions or 
methods when possible.
4.State Management:
○Follow best practices for state management, using React Hooks (useState, 
useEffect) for managing component state.
○Consider using state management libraries like Redux or Context API for 
managing global application state when needed.
5.Component Lifecycle:
○Understand and utilize React component lifecycle methods (such as 
componentDidMount, componentDidUpdate, componentWillUnmount) 
appropriately for managing side effects and updating component state.
6.Code Reusability:
○Encapsulate reusable UI elements and functionality into separate components for 
better modularity and maintainability.
○Use props and component composition to pass data and behavior between parent 
and child components.
7.Error Handling:
○Implement error boundaries to catch and handle errors occurring within the 
component tree gracefully.
○Display meaningful error messages to users when errors occur to aid in 
troubleshooting and debugging.
These coding standards and best practices will help ensure consistency, readability, 
maintainability, and security across the PHP (CodeIgniter) backend and React.js frontend of the 
FISAT Certificate Management System. 

--- page 19 ---

4.1.2. Environment Setup
              Steps to get the program running on bare ubuntu machine:
Step should contain all instructions for all tools.
Setting up the development environment for the FISAT Certificate Management System involves
configuring the necessary software tools, libraries, and dependencies for both backend (PHP with
CodeIgniter) and frontend (React.js) development. 
The below is a vague set of instructions. Give the set of instructions to be run on ubuntu latest 
LTS.
Backend (PHP with CodeIgniter)
1.Install PHP:
○Download and install PHP from the official PHP website or using a package 
manager like Homebrew (for macOS) or Chocolatey (for Windows).
○Ensure PHP is properly installed and added to the system PATH.
2.Install Composer:
○Composer is a dependency manager for PHP. Download and install Composer 
following the instructions on the official Composer website.
3.Install CodeIgniter:
○Use Composer to create a new CodeIgniter project or download the CodeIgniter 
framework from the official website.
○Follow the CodeIgniter documentation to set up the project directory structure and
configuration files.
4.Configure Database:
○Set up a PostgreSQL database server or use an existing installation.
○Configure the CodeIgniter database configuration file ( database.php) with the 
database connection details.
5.Install Additional Packages (Optional):
○Depending on the project requirements, install additional PHP packages or 
libraries using Composer, such as authentication libraries or utility packages.
Frontend (React.js)
1.Install Node.js and npm:
○Download and install Node.js from the official Node.js website, which includes 
npm (Node Package Manager).
○Verify the installation by running node -v and npm -v in the terminal/command 
prompt.
2.Create React App:
○Use create-react-app to create a new React.js project.
○Run npx create-react-app <project-name>  to create a new project directory with 
the necessary files and dependencies.
3.Set up Axios (Optional):

--- page 20 ---

○If your React.js application needs to make HTTP requests to the backend API, 
install Axios using npm: npm install axios.
○Axios is a popular HTTP client library that simplifies sending AJAX requests 
from the browser.
4.Start Development Server:
○Navigate to the project directory and run npm start to start the development 
server.
○This will compile the React.js code and open the application in a web browser.
IDE and Text Editor
1.Choose an IDE or Text Editor:
○Use a suitable integrated development environment (IDE) or text editor for 
coding, such as Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text, Atom, or PHPStorm.
○Install necessary plugins or extensions for PHP and JavaScript development.
Version Control
1.Initialize Git Repository:
○Initialize a Git repository in the project directory using the command git init.
○Set up a remote repository on a hosting service like GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket 
for collaborative development and version control.
Additional Tools (Optional)
1.Database Management Tool:
○Install a database management tool like pgAdmin or DBeaver for managing 
PostgreSQL databases.
2.API Testing Tool:
○Use tools like Postman or Insomnia for testing API endpoints and making HTTP 
requests during development.
3.Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD):
○Set up CI/CD pipelines using services like GitHub Actions, Travis CI, or Jenkins 
for automated testing and deployment.
Sample steps can be added 
Deployment:
●Deployment on AWS:
○Application deployed on AWS infrastructure for high availability, scalability, and 
reliability.

--- page 21 ---

○Utilizes AWS services like EC2 for web servers, RDS for managed PostgreSQL 
database, and S3 for file storage.
FISAT Certificate Management System Test Plan
Test Plan:
1. Introduction
This Test Plan outlines the testing approach, scope, resources, and schedule for the FISAT 
Certificate Management System. The purpose is to ensure that the system meets its functional 
and non-functional requirements and is ready for deployment.
2. Test Objectives
●Validate the functionality of the system according to the Software Requirements 
Specification (SRS).
●Ensure the reliability, security, and performance of the system.
●Identify and address any defects or issues before deployment.
3. Test Scope
The testing will cover both backend (PHP with CodeIgniter) and frontend (React.js) components 
of the FISAT Certificate Management System. It includes functional testing, non-functional 
testing (performance, security), and user acceptance testing (UAT).
4. Test Approach
●Use a combination of manual and automated testing techniques.
●Conduct unit testing, integration testing, system testing, and acceptance testing.
●Perform regression testing to ensure that new changes do not adversely affect existing 
functionality.
5. Test Environment
Backend Testing:
●Operating System: Windows/Linux/macOS
●Web Server: Apache or Nginx
●Database: PostgreSQL
●PHP Version: Compatible with CodeIgniter framework requirements

--- page 22 ---

Frontend Testing:
●Browsers: Chrome, Firefox, Safari
●Operating System: Windows/Linux/macOS
6. Test Cases
●Unit Testing: Test individual backend functions and frontend components in isolation.
●Integration Testing: Test the interaction between backend and frontend components.
●System Testing: Test the entire system to ensure all components work together 
seamlessly.
●Acceptance Testing: Test the application against user acceptance criteria to validate its 
readiness for deployment.
7. Test Execution
●Execute test cases according to the test plan and document test results.
●Use a defect tracking system to log and track issues encountered during testing.
8. Test Schedule
1.Test Preparation: Prepare test cases and test data based on requirements - Week 1
2.Test Execution: Execute test cases and document test results - Weeks 2-3
3.Defect Resolution: Address and fix reported defects - Weeks 4-5
4.Regression Testing: Perform regression testing after defect resolution - Weeks 6-7
9. Risks and Contingencies
●Risk: Unexpected changes in requirements may impact the testing schedule and scope.
●Contingency: Maintain open communication with stakeholders and be prepared to adapt 
the test plan as needed.
10. Conclusion
This Test Plan outlines the approach, scope, resources, and schedule for testing the FISAT 
Certificate Management System. It aims to ensure the quality and reliability of the system before 
deployment.

--- page 23 ---

Test Scenarios :
1. User Authentication
1.TC-01: Verify that a user can log in with valid username and password.
2.TC-02: Verify that an error message is displayed for invalid login credentials.
3.TC-03: Verify that users are redirected to the login page when accessing protected pages 
without authentication.
2. Event Management
1.TC-04: Verify that a faculty member can create a new event with valid details.
2.TC-05: Verify that the created event is displayed correctly on the main dashboard.
3.TC-06: Verify that a faculty member can edit an existing event successfully.
4.TC-07: Verify that a faculty member can delete an existing event.
3. Certificate Management
1.TC-08: Verify that certificates are issued correctly for participants of events.
2.TC-09: Verify that the issued certificate contains accurate participant information.
3.TC-10: Verify that a faculty member can download certificates in CSV or XLS format.
4. Cell/Club Management (Admin Dashboard)
1.TC-11: Verify that an admin can create a new cell/club with valid details.
2.TC-12: Verify that the created cell/club is displayed correctly on the admin dashboard.
3.TC-13: Verify that an admin can assign a faculty member as a coordinator for a cell/club.
4.TC-14: Verify that an admin can view and manage faculty-cell mappings successfully.
5. User Interface
1.TC-15: Verify that all UI elements (buttons, forms, input fields) are displayed correctly 
and functional.
2.TC-16: Verify that the UI is responsive and works well on different screen sizes and 
devices.
3.TC-17: Verify that error messages are displayed appropriately for invalid user inputs.
6. Security
1.TC-18: Verify that passwords are stored securely using encryption techniques.
2.TC-19: Verify that access controls are enforced correctly, preventing unauthorized access
to protected resources.
3.TC-20: Verify that input validation is performed to prevent common security 
vulnerabilities (e.g., SQL injection, XSS).

--- page 24 ---

7. Performance
1.TC-21: Verify that the system responds promptly to user interactions and requests.
2.TC-22: Perform stress testing by simulating a high volume of concurrent users to 
evaluate system performance.
3.TC-23: Measure and analyze response times for different operations to identify 
performance bottlenecks.
8. Compatibility
1.TC-24: Test the application on different web browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Safari) to 
ensure cross-browser compatibility.
2.TC-25: Test the application on different operating systems (Windows, Linux, macOS) to 
ensure cross-platform compatibility.
3.TC-26: Verify that the application works correctly on mobile devices with varying screen
sizes.
9. Usability
1.TC-27: Conduct usability testing with end-users to evaluate the intuitiveness and ease of 
use of the application.
2.TC-28: Gather feedback from users regarding the clarity of instructions, navigation, and 
overall user experience.
3.TC-29: Make improvements based on user feedback to enhance usability and user 
satisfaction.
10. Accessibility
1.TC-30: Verify that the application complies with accessibility standards (e.g., WCAG) to 
ensure accessibility for users with disabilities.
2.TC-31: Test the application with screen readers and assistive technologies to evaluate 
accessibility features.
3.TC-32: Ensure that all interactive elements are keyboard accessible and have proper 
focus indicators.
These test cases cover various aspects of the FISAT Certificate Management System, ensuring 
thorough testing and validation of its functionality, usability, security, performance, 
compatibility, and accessibility. Adjust the test cases as needed based on specific requirements 
and use cases.
Unit Testing 
Unit testing involves testing individual units or components of the software application in 
isolation to ensure they work correctly. For the FISAT Certificate Management System, unit 

--- page 25 ---

testing can be performed for both backend (PHP with CodeIgniter) and frontend (React.js) 
components. Here are some example unit test cases for each:
Backend (PHP with CodeIgniter)
1.User Authentication Function:
○Test that the authentication function correctly validates a user's credentials.
○Test with valid username and password.
○Test with invalid username.
○Test with invalid password.
○Test for error handling when database connection fails.
2.Event Creation Function:
○Test that the function correctly creates a new event in the database.
○Test with valid event details.
○Test for error handling when required fields are missing.
○Test for error handling when database insertion fails.
3.Certificate Issuance Function:
○Test that the function correctly generates and issues certificates for participants of 
events.
○Test with valid participant information.
○Test for error handling when required participant information is missing.
○Test for error handling when certificate generation fails.
Frontend (React.js)
1.Login Component:
○Test that the login component renders correctly.
○Test that the login form captures user input correctly.
○Test that the login function is called when the login button is clicked.
○Test for error handling when invalid credentials are entered.
2.Event Creation Form:
○Test that the event creation form renders correctly.
○Test that the form captures event details correctly.
○Test that the create event function is called when the save button is clicked.
○Test for error handling when required fields are empty.
3.Certificate Download Component:
○Test that the certificate download component renders correctly.
○Test that the correct certificates are displayed for download.
○Test that the download function is called when the download button is clicked.
○Test for error handling when certificate download fails.
Test Frameworks and Tools
●Backend Testing: PHPUnit can be used for unit testing PHP components.

--- page 26 ---

●Frontend Testing: Jest and React Testing Library can be used for unit testing React.js 
components.
Example PHPUnit Test Case (Backend)
use PHPUnit\Framework\TestCase;
use App\Models\UserModel;
class AuthenticationTest  extends TestCase
{
    public function testValidAuthentication ()
    {
        $userModel = new UserModel();
        $result = $userModel->authenticate('username', 'password');
        $this->assertTrue($result);
    }
    public function testInvalidAuthentication ()
    {
        $userModel = new UserModel();
        $result = $userModel->authenticate('invalid_username', 'invalid_password');
        $this->assertFalse($result);
    }
}
Example React Testing Library Test Case (Frontend)
import { render, fireEvent } from '@testing-library/react' ;
import Login from './Login';
test('renders login form' , () => {
  const { getByLabelText, getByText } = render(<Login />);
  const usernameInput = getByLabelText(/Username/i);
  const passwordInput = getByLabelText(/Password/i);
  const loginButton = getByText(/Login/i);
  expect(usernameInput).toBeInTheDocument ();
  expect(passwordInput).toBeInTheDocument ();
  expect(loginButton).toBeInTheDocument ();
});

--- page 27 ---

test('calls login function on button click' , () => {
  const mockLogin = jest. fn();
  const { getByText } = render(<Login login={mockLogin} />);
  const loginButton = getByText(/Login/i);
  fireEvent.click(loginButton);
  expect(mockLogin).toHaveBeenCalled ();
});
These are just examples of unit test cases for the FISAT Certificate Management System. Actual 
test cases should be tailored to the specific functionalities and requirements of the application.
Integration Testing
Integration testing involves testing the interaction and integration between different modules or 
components of the software application. For the FISAT Certificate Management System, 
integration testing can focus on ensuring that backend (PHP with CodeIgniter) and frontend 
(React.js) components work together seamlessly. Here are some example integration test 
scenarios:
Backend-Frontend Integration Testing
1.User Authentication Integration:
○Test the integration between the login form (frontend) and the authentication 
function (backend).
○Verify that user authentication works correctly when valid credentials are entered.
○Verify that error messages are displayed correctly when authentication fails.
2.Event Management Integration:
○Test the integration between the event creation form (frontend) and the event 
creation function (backend).
○Verify that events are created successfully in the database with valid details.
○Verify that events are displayed correctly on the main dashboard after creation.
3.Certificate Management Integration:
○Test the integration between the certificate download component (frontend) and 
the certificate issuance function (backend).
○Verify that certificates are issued correctly for participants of events.
○Verify that certificates can be downloaded successfully in CSV or XLS format.
Test Frameworks and Tools
●Backend-Frontend Integration Testing:  For end-to-end testing of the integration 
between backend and frontend components, tools like Selenium WebDriver or Cypress 
can be used.

--- page 28 ---

●API Testing: For testing the integration between the backend API and frontend 
components, tools like Postman or Insomnia can be used to send HTTP requests and 
verify responses.
Example Integration Test Scenario (Using Cypress)
describe('User Authentication Integration', () => {
  it('Successfully logs in with valid credentials', () => {
    cy.visit('/login');
    cy.get('[data-testid=username]').type('valid_username');
    cy.get('[data-testid=password]').type('valid_password');
    cy.get('[data-testid=login-button]').click();
    cy.url().should('include', '/dashboard');
  });
  it('Displays error message for invalid credentials', () => {
    cy.visit('/login');
    cy.get('[data-testid=username]').type('invalid_username');
    cy.get('[data-testid=password]').type('invalid_password');
    cy.get('[data-testid=login-button]').click();
    cy.contains('Invalid username or password').should('be.visible');
  });
});
In this example, Cypress is used to simulate user interactions with the login form and verify the 
integration between the frontend login component and the backend authentication function. 
Similar test scenarios can be created for other integration points in the FISAT Certificate 
Management System.
Integration testing helps ensure that all components of the system work together as intended, 
identifying and addressing any issues that may arise during the integration process.
Functional Testing 
Functional testing involves testing the functional requirements of the software application to
ensure  that  it  behaves  as  expected  and  meets  the  specified  requirements.  For  the  FISAT
Certificate  Management  System,  functional  testing  can  cover  various  aspects  such  as  user
authentication,  event  management,  certificate  issuance,  and  more.  Here  are  some  example
functional test scenarios:

--- page 29 ---

User Authentication
1.Valid Login:
○Input valid username and password.
○Verify that the user is successfully logged in and redirected to the main 
dashboard.
2.Invalid Login:
○Input invalid username or password.
○Verify that an error message is displayed, and the user is not logged in.
3.Logout:
○Click on the logout button.
○Verify that the user is successfully logged out and redirected to the login page.
Event Management
4.Create Event:
○Fill in the event creation form with valid details.
○Verify that the event is successfully created and displayed on the main dashboard.
5.Edit Event:
○Select an existing event to edit.
○Modify the event details.
○Verify that the changes are saved successfully and reflected in the event list.
6.Delete Event:
○Select an existing event to delete.
○Confirm the deletion.
○Verify that the event is removed from the event list.
Certificate Management
7.Issue Certificate:
○Select an event with participants.
○Click on the "Issue Certificates" button.
○Verify that certificates are generated and issued to participants.
8.Download Certificates:
○Select an event.
○Click on the "Download Certificates" button.
○Verify that certificates are downloaded in CSV or XLS format.
Cell/Club Management (Admin Dashboard)
9.Create Cell/Club:
○Fill in the cell/club creation form with valid details.
○Verify that the cell/club is successfully created and displayed on the admin 
dashboard.
10.Assign Coordinator:

--- page 30 ---

○Select a cell/club.
○Assign a faculty member as the coordinator.
○Verify that the coordinator assignment is saved successfully.
Usability and Accessibility
11.User Interface Testing:
○Test the user interface elements for correctness, consistency, and responsiveness.
○Ensure that all interactive elements are accessible via keyboard navigation.
Error Handling
12.Invalid Inputs:
○Submit forms with invalid or missing inputs.
○Verify that appropriate error messages are displayed.
Security
13.Access Controls:
○Test access to protected pages without authentication.
○Verify that unauthorized users are redirected to the login page.
Performance
14.Response Time:
○Measure and analyze the response time for various operations (login, event 
creation, certificate issuance).
○Ensure that the application responds promptly under normal load conditions.
Compatibility
15.Browser Compatibility:
○Test the application on different web browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Safari) to ensure
cross-browser compatibility.
These functional test scenarios cover a wide range of functionalities and use cases of the FISAT 
Certificate Management System, ensuring that it meets the specified requirements and behaves 
as expected in various situations. Adjust the test scenarios as needed based on specific project 
requirements and use cases.
Load Testing
Load testing involves testing the performance of the software application under expected load
conditions to ensure that it can handle a certain level of user activity without degradation in
performance. For the FISAT Certificate Management System, load testing can be conducted to

--- page 31 ---

evaluate how the system behaves under typical usage scenarios and peak loads. Here's how load
testing can be performed:
Load Testing Scenarios:
1.Login Load Test:
○Simulate multiple users logging in simultaneously.
○Gradually increase the number of concurrent logins to observe system behavior.
2.Event Creation Load Test:
○Simulate concurrent event creation requests by multiple users.
○Measure the system's ability to handle a large number of event creation operations
concurrently.
3.Certificate Issuance Load Test:
○Simulate concurrent certificate issuance requests for events with a large number 
of participants.
○Measure the system's performance in generating and issuing certificates under 
load.
4.Dashboard Load Test:
○Simulate concurrent access to the main dashboard by multiple users.
○Measure the system's response time for loading the dashboard with varying 
numbers of concurrent users.
Load Testing Tools:
1.Apache JMeter: A popular open-source load testing tool that can simulate various user 
scenarios and measure performance metrics.
2.Gatling: A Scala-based load testing tool that provides real-time reporting and supports 
scripting scenarios.
3.LoadRunner: A comprehensive load testing tool by Micro Focus that supports various 
protocols and technologies.
Load Testing Metrics:
1.Response Time: Measure the time taken for the system to respond to user requests under
load.
2.Throughput: Measure the number of requests processed per unit time (e.g., requests per 
second).
3.Concurrency: Measure the number of concurrent users or connections during the load 
test.
4.Error Rate: Monitor the rate of errors or failures encountered during the load test.
Load Testing Process:
1.Identify Scenarios:  Determine the critical user scenarios to be tested under load.

--- page 32 ---

2.Define Load Profiles:  Create load profiles specifying the number of concurrent users, 
ramp-up times, and duration of the test.
3.Configure Test Environment:  Set up the test environment to replicate production 
conditions, including hardware, network, and software configurations.
4.Execute Load Test:  Run the load test scenarios using the selected load testing tool, 
monitoring performance metrics in real-time.
5.Analyze Results: Analyze the performance metrics collected during the load test to 
identify bottlenecks, performance issues, and areas for improvement.
6.Optimize and Retest:  Make necessary optimizations to improve system performance 
based on the load test results, and retest to validate the improvements.
Load Testing Considerations:
1.Realistic Scenarios:  Design load test scenarios that mimic real-world usage patterns and 
user behavior.
2.Scalability Testing:  Test the system's ability to scale with increasing load by adding 
more resources (e.g., servers, databases) as needed.
3.Endurance Testing:  Conduct endurance testing to assess the system's stability and 
performance over prolonged periods under sustained load.
4.Failover Testing: Test failover mechanisms and recovery procedures to ensure system 
resilience and availability under load.
Load testing helps identify performance bottlenecks, scalability issues, and other performance-
related concerns, enabling the optimization of the FISAT Certificate Management System for 
optimal performance and user experience under varying load conditions.